`top` command is a command-line utility that provides a dynamic real-time view of a running system.
It can display system summary information as well as a list of processes or threads currently being managed by the Linux kernel. 
The types of system summary information shown and the types, order, and size of information displayed for processes
are all user-configurable, and that configuration can be made persistent across restarts.

`h` - help
`v, V and H` - sort by various columns
`u` - filter by user
`k` - kill a process
`top -o %MEM` - run top with processes sorted by memory.
`top -c` will show the full paths.
`top -u root` will show the processes `owned by root user`.

Line 2: 
`total` - shows all processes in the system
`running` - currently active processes. It means, these processes are using CPU right now
`sleeping` - generally - process is waiting for something. It may be an I/O operation, for example.
`stopped` - Stopped processes (for example, by ctrl+z)
`zombie` - Very important state to understand. It is a process that had finished his job but still has entry in the process table. In a simple way, these processes are waiting for exit().
It may happen when a parent process deteriorated somehow. Sometimes we are able to kill zombie (by killing the parents), but in may cases it will not work. But it is not a place to talk about it :)

Line 3:
`us` - user - All user processes are combined in this number.
`sy` - system - processes owned by system (kernel)
`ni` - nice - this is important to understand. Nice allows us to change the priority of the process. 
The standard value for processes is zero, but we can modify it from 19 (lowest) to -20 (highest) priority. 
This statistic here shows all processes with the niceness set abow 0. So, the processes which will be executed by the system, when "system will have time for it."
`id` - idle - idle time means that the system is bored and do nothing. `:))`
`wa` - iowait - the number represents the time (which is a subset of idle time) when the process is waiting for input/output operation.
This statistic is essential because it may show the issue outside the CPU, in other hardware (but not only) components.
`hi` - hardware interrupts. These are physical interrupts from hardware and are handled by CPU itself.
`si` - software interrupts. These are generated by software and are handled by kernel.
`st` - steal time - very important to understand, especially when we are working on virtualized environment.
This number represents the time "stealed" from the virtual machine by hypervisor. Another word, how long our system needs to wait for resources from hypervisor.

## Processes list
Below these five lines, we have a processes list. This list contains fields:

`PID` - process ID number. It is a unique number of the processes in the system.*
`USER` - process' owner. This user starts the process.
`PR` - default priority of the process, scheduled by kernel when the process was started.
`NI` - nice. Shows the value, if nice was performed against the process.
`VIRT` - total amount of memory used by the process.*
`RES` - RAM memory used by process.*
`SHR` - amount of memory shared with other processes.
`S` - process state (we discussed it above).
`%CPU` - what amount of available CPU is used by the process.
`%MEM` - like for CPU, but this value represents memory usage.
`TIME+` - total time of CPU usage by the process.
`COMMAND` - quite obvious, this process is executed.

`1` -> expand line 3 about CPU information